{"text": "(CNN)Marco Rubio is all in.  The Republican senator from Florida has announced that he is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, running on an optimistic message that he embodies the promise of the American Dream. With his youthful energy and Hispanic roots, it's tempting to see Rubio as the new blood that the GOP needs in order to compete against Hillary Clinton in 2016.  Yet Rubio has been his own worst enemy on what could have been his two signature issues: immigration reform and Cuba relations.  He holds little appeal to Latino voters.  And unless he can offer new ideas, his climb to the Republican nomination will be steep. Back in 2013, Rubio was a member of the Senate \"Gang of 8\" that crafted a bipartisan proposal for comprehensive reform, including a path to citizenship for the nation's estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants.  He later distanced himself from the bill after it ran into resistance from House Republicans, and now says he favors a piecemeal approach, starting with securing the border. His retreat on immigration means that Rubio has missed an opportunity to set himself apart from most of the presumptive Republican presidential candidates.  That's a shame, for this issue was supposed to be his calling card to Latino voters. Instead, Rubio has embraced a typical conservative approach to immigration.   He believes that President Obama's Deferred Action program, offering deportation relief to young immigrants, should be ended.  He has stated that the President's executive action on immigration, on hold pending a circuit court review, sets a \"horrifying precedent.\" Meanwhile, both the Deferred Action program and President Obama's executive action on immigration are overwhelmingly favored by Hispanics.  No wonder the research firm Latino Decisions reports that, \"We find no evidence that Rubio's candidacy will draw significant Latino support for his candidacy or for his party more generally.\"  So, if Rubio is counting on his ethnicity and personal history as the son of immigrants to win over fellow Hispanics, he is mistaken. At a private breakfast Monday for supporters, Rubio described running against \"one candidate in the race who's from yesterday, and one who wants to take us back to yesterday.\"  But when it comes to Cuba policy, Rubio himself seems firmly stuck in the past.  Over the weekend, he called the recent thaw in relations between the two countries ridiculous. He has warned that Cuba is taking advantage of the United States.  Here, he is an increasingly lonely voice.  Most Americans support better relations with Cuba, as do a majority of Cuban-Americans.  By clinging to the notion that isolating Cuba is better than engaging with the communist country, Rubio has marginalized himself on an issue where he could have provided insight and leadership. Immigration and Cuba policy aside, Rubio's political philosophy will be a tough sell to Hispanics.  He is a fierce opponent of \"Obamacare\" and wants the law repealed.  However, the Affordable Care Act has led to a 12.3% drop in the Hispanic uninsured rate, making Latinos the demographic with the largest gain in insurance, thanks to the law.  (In fact, Rubio signed his own family up for \"Obamacare\" on the Washington exchange, taking advantage of a generous federal subsidy offered to lawmakers.) Rubio favors smaller government, while Latinos are more likely than the general public to say they favor a bigger government that provides more services over a small government that provides less.  And though Rubio doubts that climate change is caused by humans, The New York Times has noted that Latinos view global warming as a problem and favor government action on the issue. Sure, Rubio is young and charismatic.  But his work on the failed immigration bill notwithstanding, Rubio has a significant lack of accomplishments to show for his five years in the senate.  In February, he was reported as topping the list of absentee lawmakers by the website Politico. Another Rubio weakness is his lack of bold policy proposals.  Consider that his fellow contender for the GOP presidential nomination, Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, has been willing to present new ideas to the Republican base, such as reforming the criminal justice system and legalizing medical marijuana.  Or that another GOP candidate for president, Sen. Ted Cruz  of Texas is entirely comfortable with his image as a conservative firebrand.  By comparison, Rubio seems cautious and ill-suited to the task of rousing Republican voters. With his early leap into the 2016 race, Marco Rubio is positioning himself as the next generation of GOP leadership.  Unfortunately, a fresh face on stale ideas is not a winning combination -- not for Rubio, and not for Latino voters.", "token_length": 1125}
{"text": "(CNN)Emergency operators get lots of crazy calls, but few start like this. Caller:  \"Hello, I'm trapped in this plane and I called my job, but I'm in this plane.\" Operator:  \"You're where?\" Caller:  \"I'm inside a plane and I feel like it's up moving in the air.  Flight 448 can you please tell somebody (to) stop it.\" The frantic 911 call came just as the Alaska Airlines flight had taken off from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on Monday afternoon.  The caller was a ramp agent who fell asleep in the plane's cargo hold. The cell phone call soon broke up, but the man was making himself known in other ways as the crew and passengers reported unusual banging from the belly of the Boeing 737. The pilot radioed air traffic control and said he would make an emergency landing. \"There could be a person in there so we're going to come back around,\" he told air traffic control. The ramp agent who took the untimely nap and caused all the fuss is an employee of Menzies Aviation, a contractor for Alaska Airlines that handles loading the luggage. He'll no longer have the option of dozing aboard one of the airline's planes. \"The Menzies employee has been permanently banned from working on Alaska Airlines planes,\" said Bobbie Egan, a spokeswoman for the airline. Flight 448, which was on its way to Los Angeles, only spent 14 minutes in the air. Other than being scared, the agent never was in any real danger. The cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled, the airline said. The passengers knew something wasn't right, almost as soon as the plane took off. \"All of a sudden we heard all this pounding underneath the plane and we thought there was something wrong with the landing gear,\" Robert Higgins told CNN affiliate KABC. Not everyone heard the banging, but it was soon clear this wasn't a normal flight. \"We just took off for L.A. regular and then ... about five minutes into the flight the captain came on and said we were going back and we'd land within five to seven minutes, and we did,\" passenger Marty Collins told affiliate KOMO. \"When we landed was when all the trucks and the police and the fire trucks surrounded the plane.\" \"I think it's scary and really unsafe, too,\" Chelsie Nieto told affiliate KCPQ. \"Because what if it's someone who could have been a terrorist?\" The employee started work at 5 a.m. and his shift was scheduled to end at 2:30 p.m., just before the flight departed. The agent was off the two days prior to the incident and had taken a lunch break and a break in the afternoon before making his way into the cargo hold, according to a source familiar with the investigation. The man had been on a four-person team loading baggage onto the flight. \"During a pre-departure huddle, the team lead noticed the employee was missing. The team lead called into the cargo hold for the employee and called and texted the employee's cell phone, but did not receive an answer. His co-workers believed he finished his shift and went home,\" the airline's blog said. It's believed he was hidden by luggage, making it difficult for the rest of his team to see him, the source said. All ramp employees have security badges, and undergo full criminal background checks before being hired, according to the airline. After the delay, the flight with 170 passengers and six crew members on board made it to Los Angeles a couple of hours late. CNN's Dave Alsup, Joshua Gaynor and Greg Morrison contributed to this report.", "token_length": 874}
{"text": "(CNN)The Baltimore mother who slapped her son several times and pulled him out of a protest told CNN on Wednesday she wasn't concerned that she might be embarrassing her son. \"Not at all,\" Toya Graham told CNN's \"Anderson Cooper 360˚\" in an interview that aired Wednesday night. \"He was embarrassing himself by wearing that mask and that hoodie and doing what he was doing.\" The video of Graham yanking her son, Michael Singleton, and slapping him with a right hand as CNN affiliate WMAR recorded has led to the Internet calling Graham #motheroftheyear. Many people have praised the unemployed, single mother of six for going to the Mondawmin Mall and getting her son away from the escalating violence. Graham told Cooper that she saw her son with a brick in his hand, and she lost control of her emotions and told him to drop it. Wednesday night: Across United States, protests in support of Baltimore demonstrators . \"I did (get emotional). You know, once he threw that rock down I said, 'You weren't brought up like this,' \" Graham said. He's not a perfect child, but he's also not a thug, she said. The 16-year-old boy said he understood that his mother was there looking out for him. \"She didn't want me to get in trouble (with the) law. She didn't want me to be like another Freddie Gray,\" he said, referring to the 25-year-old man who died of a severe spinal injury after being arrested by Baltimore police. Gray's death has sparked daily protests over police brutality. There have also been riots and looting that prompted the city to put a curfew into effect. Graham said her son told her the night before the violence at the mall that something was up. She told him then and the next morning not to go. He swore to her he wouldn't. Her motherly sense kicked in when she heard school had closed early and the mall was shutting down, too. She went to the mall and focused on the teens who were tossing rocks and bricks. There he was, in sweatpants she recognized. They made eye contact. He had a brick in his hand, and that set her off. Wednesday night: Marchers back in the streets of Baltimore . \"I was so angry with him that he had made a decision to do some harm to the police officers,\" she said. She yelled at him to put the brick down. Singleton said he had seen her, but it didn't make sense that his mother would be there. But when he heard her voice, he realized it really was his mom -- and he was in big trouble. Then the camera captured her memorable smackdown. \"It was just World War III from right there,\" he said, showing some humor about the incident. Graham noticed the TV crew but didn't think anything of it. And she didn't care. \"I wasn't there to be recorded. I was there to get my child,\" she said. Tameka Brown, one of Graham's five daughters, told CNN on Tuesday it wasn't that hard for her mom to spot her 16-year-old half-brother. \"She knows her son and picked him out. Even with the mask on, she knew,\" Brown said. Brown said her mother is always looking out for her children. \"She has always been tough and knows where we are at,\" Brown said. Graham said she tries to steer her son away from potential trouble and troublemakers. \"As long as I have breath in my body I will always try to do right by Michael and show him what's going on out in society doesn't have to be you,\" she told CNN. Her son said that once they got home from the mall he understood why she pulled him out of the crowd. \"I was embarrassed a little bit, until she just started talking to me when we got home,\" he said. \"(She was) just telling me she did it because she cared about me. And it wasn't to embarrass me, but because she cared.\" CNN's Elise Miller and AnneClaire Stapleton contributed to this report. Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 8pm ET. For the latest from AC360° click here.", "token_length": 973}
{"text": "(CNN)Ever had a headache so big, you felt like drilling a hole in your head to let the pain out? In Neolithic times trepanation -- or drilling a hole into the skull -- was thought to be a cure for everything from epilepsy to migraines. It could even have been a form of emergency surgery for battle wounds. But while there is still conjecture about the real reasons behind the mysterious procedure, what is known is that the implement often used to carry out the primitive surgery was made from one of the sharpest substances found in nature -- obsidian. Obsidian -- a type of volcanic glass -- can produce cutting edges many times finer than even the best steel scalpels. At 30 angstroms -- a unit of measurement equal to one hundred millionth of a centimeter -- an obsidian scalpel can rival diamond in the fineness of its edge. When you consider that most household razor blades are 300-600 angstroms, obsidian can still cut it with the sharpest materials nano-technology can produce. Even today, a small number of surgeons are using an ancient technology to carry out fine incisions that they say heal with minimal scarring. Dr. Lee Green, professor and chair of the Department of Family Medicine at the University of Alberta, says he routinely uses obsidian blades. \"The biggest advantage with obsidian is that it is the sharpest edge there is, it causes very little trauma to tissue, it heals faster and more importantly it heals with less scarring,\" he said. \"It makes for the best cosmetic outcome.\" He explained that steel scalpels at a microscopic level have a rough cutting edge that tears into tissue, a function of the crystals that make up the metal. Obsidian, meanwhile, cleaves into a fine and continuous edge when properly cut. Dr. Green said he once helped documentary makers produce a program on surgical technology in ancient Egyptian, setting up a blind test on the cutting power of obsidian. Using cultured-skin burn dressing, a substance composed of skin cells, he made an incision with a modern scalpel and a parallel incision with an obsidian scalpel. The host of the program was then invited to look at the cuts under a video microscope and tell the difference. \"It wasn't hard to tell the difference at all -- as soon as he turned around everyone in the studio was like 'Ohhh',\" Dr. Green said. \"Under the microscope you could see the obsidian scalpel had divided individual cells in half, and next to it the steel scalpel incision looked like it had been made by a chainsaw.\" Modern obsidian scalpels look nothing like the decorative flint-knapped knives of Neolithic man, often resembling their modern counterparts in everything except for the blade edge, but Dr. Green said they are a very different animal. \"The feel is very different because obsidian has no 'bite,'\" he said. \"If you look under the microscope at a steel scalpel edge it looks almost like a saw, it has teeth, whereas obsidian is smooth even microscopically. \"It's a very different feel to work with and you have to practice before you start using it in surgery. \"You also have to be careful not to nick yourself with it because you don't even feel it!\" And Dr. Green believes incisions made with these blades heal faster. He said a colleague who needed a mole removed agreed to undergo an experiment where half the procedure was carried out with an obsidian scalpel and the other half was removed with steel. \"What's really fun is seeing it heal,\" he said. \"Four weeks later the difference was quite remarkable -- there was very much a difference in scarring.\" In Germany, the manufacturer Fine Science Tools produces obsidian scalpels which can be used in situations where the patient may have an allergy to steel or metal. \"For studies where trace metals from ordinary scalpel blades cannot be tolerated, these very special obsidian scalpels may provide the answer,\" the company says. At €99 per scalpel ($107.40), they represent a considerable saving on their diamond cousins which the company prices at €712.50 ($772.60). But there has been little academic research into the efficacy of obsidian blades compared to steel scalpels, and they do have disadvantages: Obsidian scalpels are not Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved, and they are extremely brittle and prone to breaking if lateral forces are applied -- meaning they are unlikely to ever be in widespread use. Dr. Green, whose scalpels were manufactured for him by an expert flint-knapper and archaeologist Errett Callahan, concedes the Stone Age scalpels are not for everyone. \"If it was let loose on the market there'd be far too many injuries from it,\" he said. \"It's very fragile and it's very easy to break pieces off.\"", "token_length": 1157}
{"text": "(CNN)We did it again, in another American city. We set Baltimore on fire this time. We brutalized black bodies. We turned a funeral into a riot. We let things get out of hand. We looted. We threw stones at policemen. We threw stones at citizens. We created camera-ready chaos, and we replayed the images. We created a culture of such deep distrust and disrespect that violence seemed the inevitable response. We let the violence flow. We let the violence stand for everything that's wrong with the things we already didn't like. By now you may be asking, \"Who's we?\" You may be saying with some irritation, \"Don't lump me in with them. I didn't have anything to do with it.\" To which the only real answer can be: Stop kidding yourself. The word \"we\" is one of the great American words. We the People. Yes we can. We are family. I use \"we\" a lot when I talk about our country's achievements. I like to say we won the Second World War, we put a man on the moon, we invented the Internet, we gave the world jazz. Well, if I -- a son of immigrants whose family had nothing to do with any of those accomplishments -- if I get to claim those aspects of American history, then surely I have to claim the unsavory aspects too. \"We\" cuts both ways. We enslaved Africans. We cut Reconstruction short and made a mockery of equal citizenship. We supported Jim Crow, then redlined, subordinated, and ghettoized African-Americans. We cut blacks out of the New Deal. We created a polity in which racial inequity and economic inequality magnify each other unrelentingly. We tried to put a lid on it with heavy policing and a War on Drugs. We failed. We are the authors of every page of Baltimore's story. Don't tell me it's not your responsibility or mine. About how slavery and its legacy are artifacts of a time past. Someone else's problem. No, we own them all. And we all have to face that before we can fix anything in Baltimore or beyond. But there's another dimension of the story of \"we\" that matters as well. It's about progressives and conservatives and their competing stories of how we got here. Every time protests and violence break out in response to police brutality, the same depressing pattern breaks out. The event becomes simply a Rorschach test for left and right, and each side sees in the rioting confirmation of its prior views. For the left, it's about the deep structural root causes of the alienation and violence. Liberals gravitate on social media to commentaries or reactions that reinforce this frame, like the surprisingly astute comments from the Baltimore Orioles executive who spelled out why a long history of racial injustice and economic disenfranchisement made rioting nearly inevitable. Conservatives gravitate to their own frames, about a lack of personal responsibility or role models among poor urban blacks, about the failures of Great Society and Democratic programs, and about how it all comes back to a president (who happens to be black) who has divided us by focusing so much on race. What gets lost in this Groundhog Day replay of left-right frames is a simple reality that we all have to recognize: Both longstanding structural racism and personal irresponsibility are on display this week. Both a history of police brutality and a present crisis of street violence. Both an inherited, multigenerational lack of opportunity and a dearth of leaders willing to address it. We cannot separate out the aspects of the problem that don't fit our preferred explanation -- not if we are sincere about solving the problem. And until more people can see this, we will not see progress. We can't judge looters for their antisocial behavior without judging a color-caste structure and a school-to-prison pipeline that has flushed them away like so much refuse. By the same token, we can't keep opining about root causes without also supporting the parents and pastors and neighbors who, in their own small ways, are organizing each other to break the cycle of brokenness. I'm of the left. But it cannot possibly be that only those with whom I disagree are responsible for what is happening in Baltimore. It cannot possibly be that only my worldview contains all the solutions. Whatever our political perspective, we need to open our eyes to what is actually happening in Baltimore and other cities in the United States in the second decade of the 21st century. It is an abomination. We should all be able to say that. It's time to push each other out of our ideological and identity comfort zones and build unlikely coalitions to create more opportunity. It's time to act like we are all in charge. Because we are. And there is no other \"we\" waiting in the wings.", "token_length": 1104}
{"text": "(Billboard)The key to rock's longevity is it never defines itself into irrelevance. So while there were some loud, dirty guitars at the 2015 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony in Cleveland on Saturday night, there was as much recognition for rock's antecedents in soul and blues, speaking less to a particular taxonomy than a spirit that's beyond words. It's easy to talk of such spirit when Paul McCartney is there to honor Ringo Starr, and Yoko Ono is on hand as well. Speaking briefly backstage, Ono expressed feeling that it was wonderful for Starr to be honored, \"just sad John and George aren't here,\" referring to her late husband John Lennon and Beatles guitarist and fellow songwriter George Harrison. Starr was certainly happy to be there — after a long wait, he's the final Beatle to be inducted as a solo act. \"I've finally been invited, and I love it,\" said the 74-year-old drummer. \"I got lucky, and it was actually in Cleveland,\" he said to enormous applause. Fifty-one years earlier, Starr had been in town to play the very same Hall; he admitted backstage that he didn't remember the cops stopping the show during \"All My Loving\" and making the Beatles return to the dressing room for ten minutes until the fans could be calmed. Starr said in a backstage interview that he couldn't recall the incident specifically, but admitted that there had been a lot of shows in between. \"I'll remember this one,\" he promised. Others receiving Rock Hall honors included Paul Butterfield Blues Band, early soul act The 5 Royales, singer Bill Withers, punk rockers Green Day, Lou Reed, Joan Jett & the Blackhearts and Stevie Ray Vaughan. It was a night for the young to honor the old and perhaps prepare for a later visit. John Mayer hailed his longtime idol, the late Vaughan, in a heartfelt speech. John Legend came out to honor Bill Withers with a performance of \"Use Me\" backed by Stevie Wonder, who inducted Withers. The two then shared \"Lean on Me,\" until Legend went and pulled Withers to the front of the stage to join them. Beck, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Bill Withers, Seymour Stein hit Rock Hall's weekend festivities . The 76-year old soul legend hasn't performed live in many years but had hinted in the months leading up to the induction ceremonies that he might sing once more. Withers sounded great, though he may have an even brighter future in stand-up. \"This has got to be the biggest AA meeting [in the] Western hemisphere,\" said Withers, alluding to an earlier moment in the show when Jimmie Vaughan confessed, \"I taught my brother guitar, and he taught me how to get sober.\" He called being inducted by Wonder, \"A lion holding the door for a kitty cat.\" The moment of relative levity was welcome after moving tributes paid to the late Lou Reed by Patti Smith and Reed's widow, music artist Laurie Anderson, who shared the three rules for life that they came up with: \"One: don't be afraid of anyone; Two: get a really good b------t detector and learn how to use it; Three: be really, really tender.\" Smith had to push back tears on at least three occasions. She recalled a night when they wound up in the same hotel and Reed invited her up. She found him in the tub dressed in black and she sat on the toilet and talked with him. Green Day was inducted by Fall Out Boy, who referenced the length of some of the speeches. Cracked Fall Out Boy frontman Patrick Stump: \"I feel like I'm in a line at the DMV.\" As one of the youngest acts, it's not surprising they gave one of the two most exciting performances of the evening. Rock Hall induction ceremony: Lou Reed 'would be amused,' says sister . The other belonged to Tom Morello, Doyle Bramhall II and Zac Brown with harmonica player Jason Ricci performing \"Born in Chicago\" in tribute to the Paul Butterfield Blues Band. Not only did Ricci slay, but Morello played a nasty scabrous solo that raised the hairs on your arm, it was so alive. Miley Cyrus inducted Joan Jett in her own inimitable way, recalling a time she walked in on Jett smoking pot and being so turned on by her strength, wisdom and soul that the young pop star wanted to have sex with the legendary rocker. Jett joined the Blackhearts and Foo Fighters' Dave Grohl for a mini-set that include such classics as \"Bad Reputation,\" the Runaways' \"Cherry Bomb\" and \"Crimson and Clover,\" the Tommy James & the Shondelles cover that Jett took to No. 1. It was that kind of a night, and it closed with a rousing version of the Beatles' \"I Want to Be Your Man,\" where just about everybody who could make it out on stage did, including a near-end guitar scrum/lead-off between Gary Clark Jr., Morello, Zac Brown and Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Nick Zinner. ©2015 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.", "token_length": 1218}
{"text": "(CNN)\"It really depends what you want. Boy? Girl? Young? Old?\" The man on the phone was offering us young children with the casualness of a market trader. After a week of back and forth phone calls, his initial caginess had given way to greed. He'd heard my foreign accent and clearly decided I would pay more than the domestic rate. \"We can get,\" he said. We'd been put in touch with the man through a contact on the ground. We were told he was one of the men running this \"unofficial\" displaced camp -- one of the many that has mushroomed in the town of Yola as the influx of people fleeing Boko Haram has grown beyond the capacity of the official camps. It had all been heartbreakingly simple. We'd asked who had children available to \"foster\" -- a catch-all code word designed to conceal the true intent of those offering up the orphaned children. The man on the phone was the end result of those inquiries. When our colleague want to see them, he was shown a group of children and asked which one he wanted to take. One, two maybe? He escaped by saying he needed to check with his \"madam\" -- me. I called. The man picked up and began referring to me as \"sister.\" I told him we wanted to know what we'd need to do, if we decided we did want to \"foster\" the children. He told me, \"Sister, Jesus will reward me,\" so the \"fostering\" was free, he said. No need for any pesky paperwork -- just a reassurance from me that the children, if I chose to take them, would \"live in my heart.\" If I could also then find it \"in my heart\" to donate to those still in the camp, then that would be \"God's work.\" In spite of the harsh measures the Nigerian government has put in place to punish human traffickers, by the government's own admission, 8 million children are currently engaged in forced labor. The Global Slavery Index says Nigeria has the highest number of people in modern slavery of any sub-Saharan country. Paradoxically, the group also rates Nigeria's anti-trafficking agency, Naptip, as one of the strongest government responses on the continent -- but it's clearly overwhelmed by the realities of working in what is now a zone of military operations, Nigeria's north. As the insecurity in the region has spiraled, the worry is that more and more children are falling through the cracks. And as Boko Haram increases its reliance on child suicide bombers, concerns are growing that orphaned children could end up in the hands of the terror group. At the camp where we finally met the man face to face, there was no attempt at subterfuge. We spoke in normal tones in full view of the children playing. I could have had one of them, I was told, but because I'd specified a younger child, they'd only identified one so far -- a 3-year-old. Did I want to consider an older girl? A 12-year-old maybe? She could look after the 3-year-old, and cook and clean. Either way, two girls would be ready tomorrow, he said. I could see them then. Our last phone conversation revolved around what an appropriate \"donation\" would be in exchange for the children. He couldn't, he said, bargain for it. He then proceeded to do just that, laughing down the phone at my first tentative guess of $200. Laughing again at $300. We finally found a figure he didn't find funny -- $500. I put the phone down and we traveled back to the capital that day to show Naptip what we'd found.", "token_length": 866}
{"text": "(CNN)Much like the ardent young royal-watchers of today, enamored by the Duchess of Cambridge's very being, I was similarly captivated by Diana, Princess of Wales when I was a youngster. She was a rare breed: stunningly beautiful, immediately accessible, witty, charming and endearingly mischievous -- she was one in a million. Of course that was long before the, \"there were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded,\" interviews and tell-all books alleging suicide attempts and acts of betrayal, but back then I was unaware of her more scandalous infamy. I simply adored her ... I still do. As the world awaits the impending birth of William and Kate's second baby, potential names have become the topic of rampant speculation and heated debate. Girls' names are causing the biggest stir, as there seems to be a belief that the couple are expecting a princess. If the assumptions are correct, she will be the first Princess of Cambridge born into the royal family in 182 years. The birth of any baby is cause for celebration, but given recent changes in the laws of succession, her arrival would be a historical one. In choosing a name, titled royals tend to turn to the family tree, rather than a well-thumbed copy of \"1,001 Best Baby Names\" like the rest of us. Traditionally they pick dynastic names, and there are plenty to choose from: Elizabeth, Alice, Victoria and Charlotte have all been frontrunners, but the sentimental favorite among punters remains Diana. In a recent Today Show poll, 32% of Americans predicted the name was a shoo-in, and in the UK the bookies' odds of a baby named after her late grandmother change almost daily as Diana becomes an increasingly popular choice. That said, in the event the couple do welcome a baby girl, I would hope that they do not opt to name her Diana. Today Diana's name is as divisive as the very institution of monarchy itself: while some have virtually sainted her, others have been vehemently critical, accusing her of being childish, unhinged and self-serving. Contrary to popular belief the Queen was very fond of Diana, but should her name be bestowed as a first name upon the baby, it would be perceived as a slap in the face to the monarchy. In the years since Earl Spencer's scathing attack on the Windsors at Diana's funeral, the nation has moved on and Diana's legacy has been celebrated. She has become a part of royal history. Her memory has been preserved, and the royal family is once again enjoying a renewed sense of popularity. Out of respect to the Queen, Charles, Camilla and the baby herself the couple simply wouldn't do it. Diana's name conjures up both positive and negative responses the world over, and whichever side of the fence you're on, the moniker seems to me an almighty burden for a newborn baby to carry. Since Diana's death almost 18 years ago, William has honored his mother's memory in a private and personal fashion. He has taken on many of her patronages and continued to champion her causes. At his wedding in 2011 the Bishop of London, Richard Chartres, a close friend of Diana and executor of her will, gave the address. The hymn Guide Me O Thou Great Redeemer, which was sung at both Diana's funeral in 1997 and at the memorial marking the tenth anniversary of her death in 2007, was chosen for the royal wedding. Julia Samuel, another close friend of Diana, was asked to serve as Godmother to Prince George. William chose Kensington Palace, his own childhood home, to be the primary residence for his family, and in perhaps the most public acknowledgment of his mother's memory, he gave Kate Diana's engagement ring. William doesn't need to name his second-born child after his mother in order to honour her; he does so by being a good husband and father. I still miss Diana. She was a one-off, and I don't believe the world will ever witness another quite like her. Daily comparisons to her late mother-in-law are already Kate's cross to bear. Shouldn't a baby girl be spared the same fate? Diana's tragic, untimely death and iconic status will ensure her memory is kept alive for generations to come. She wouldn't want her granddaughter to languish in her shadow. She would want her to go out into the world, to make her own mark and help those less fortunate, to enrich the lives of others and to carve out her own unique identity -- as Alice, Elizabeth, Victoria, Charlotte, or -- my own personal pick -- Alexandra.", "token_length": 1109}
{"text": "(CNN)It is a city transformed, swollen in size but shrunken in scope, anxiously awaiting what comes next. On Kabul's streets, you can easily find the uneasy legacy of America's longest war. Outside one mosque -- mixing with other men desperate for a day's worth of casual manual labor -- are five men who months ago had one valuable skill NATO depended upon: they speak English. Now however, their world has turned upon them. They were, each for a different reason -- each for a reason they do not understand -- all fired from their jobs and then blacklisted, they say, meaning they can no longer get work with other government groups or NGOs here. The skill they once thrived off has left them isolated, and fearing reprisals. They sleep in market stalls, and avoid traveling to see their families in case the threats they face are visited upon them. \"My family is still living in the provinces,\" one of the men tells me. \"I cannot go there. I am living in a market, in one of the empty shops.\" Another adds: \"My family, everybody, give up on me, they are nervous.\" A third man -- all requested anonymity -- says: \"Right now I sleep here, on the street, in this mosque area.\" \"We are in prison in Afghanistan,\" a fourth says. The U.S. Embassy and NATO declined to comment for this story. EXCLUSIVE: The last Americans in Afghanistan . Helicopters still buzz around the capital. Its population is five times what it was when NATO arrived here, even by the most conservative estimates, and the violence in the provinces means people swell it further still -- arriving in Kabul's dusty, mountainous bowl of a city in order to avoid the fighting. Neighborhoods that were once massively over-priced cliques of foreigners living in \"poppy palaces\" -- villas allegedly bought from profiteers of the opium trade -- are now empty. One road, forever pot-holed in the past decade, is now being covered over by Afghans who, it seems, are finally reclaiming that street. Even Chicken Street, the hackneyed pedestrian shopping road where new Western arrivals would buy carpets or local trinkets, is more or less deserted. One shopkeeper says it could be the embassy security warnings that are keeping people away now. It is the same for the restaurants here that used to brim with contractors and NGO workers. They are now empty, the sound of their heavy metal doors echoing across deserted tables. It is immeasurably different to three years ago when I lived there. Drive out east -- past the women in burqas who sit on road bumps, holding their children, hoping drivers will slow enough to throw them change -- and you see roads lined with the detritus of America's war here. Huge lines of excavators, cherry-pickers, and forklift trucks sit idle. At times it seemed there was little America wouldn't do, or try, to meets its often fluid goals in the country. Yet today, the machines that could have once moved small mountains do little more than gather dust. EXCLUSIVE: Afghan woman forced to marry her rapist . Further down the road too are more winners-turned-losers of the NATO presence here. Vast supply chains once kept 120,000 troops fed and watered. Trucks lined the roads and climbed up to the military bases. Now the bases are gone, and the trucks that once supplied millions sit still. Their bosses may have fled abroad with their winnings, yet the drivers have been left behind, stuck with vehicles that cost them $30,000 to buy -- and $1,000 a year just to keep on the road -- but that would fetch just a tenth of that price now. \"The contracts were with big businessmen and commanders who were giving us very little and made themselves very rich and are now living comfortably in Dubai,\" one truck driver tells us. Yet still the wedding palaces proliferate. Along one stretch of road their endless, multiplying lights throb. Each night the houses seem packed -- the commitment to the future still is popular here, despite the uncertainty -- even if the lights that decorate them seem more and more like a symbol of leaving. One set actually replicates the shape of an expensive hotel in Dubai. The city's lights do shine staggeringly and often constantly -- something the Taliban never achieved during their rule here. NATO's efforts to keep them on are reported to have involved diesel power stations that cost billions but were barely switched on. The question many surely ask here -- as the last American troops prepare to retreat inside the U.S. Embassy by the end of next year -- is how much longer the lights will continue to glow. READ MORE: Nick Paton Walsh answers your questions about Afghanistan .", "token_length": 1119}
{"text": "Marseille, France (CNN)Initial tests on the flight data recorder recovered from downed Germanwings Flight 9525 show that co-pilot Andreas Lubitz purposely used the controls to speed up the plane's descent, according to the French air accident investigation agency, the BEA. The flight data recorder, or \"black box,\" was found Thursday by recovery teams that have spent days since the March 24 crash scouring the mountainside in the French Alps where the plane went down. A statement from the BEA on Friday said its teams had immediately begun to investigate its contents. \"The initial readout shows that the pilot present in the cockpit used the autopilot to put the (airplane) into a descent towards an altitude of 100 (feet) then, on several occasions during the descent, the pilot modified the autopilot setting to increase the speed of the (airplane) in descent,\" it said. \"Work is continuing to establish the precise history of the flight.\" Evidence from the plane's cockpit voice recorder, recovered swiftly after the crash, had already led investigators to believe that Lubitz acted deliberately to bring down the plane, killing all 150 people on board. And prosecutors in Germany said Thursday that an analysis of a tablet device retrieved from the 27-year-old's apartment in Dusseldorf revealed that he had researched suicide methods and cockpit door security on the Internet. The correspondence and search history on the device demonstrated that the co-pilot used it from March 16 to March 23, Dusseldorf prosecutor Christoph Kumpa said. The search history was not deleted and also revealed searches concerning medical treatment, the prosecutor said. Investigators have focused on Lubitz's health as they try to establish his motivation. But the missing \"black box\" was expected to yield important evidence about the plane's final minutes. A female police officer digging by hand for clothes in a ravine that been searched previously found the flight data recorder Thursday afternoon about 8 inches (20 centimeters) below the surface, Marseille prosecutor Brice Robin told reporters. Usually white with florescent orange, this discovered recorder lived up to its name as a black box because fire had darkened it with ashes. In addition, out of more than 2,000 DNA samples collected from the crash site, lab workers have isolated 150 DNA profiles, Robin told reporters. \"That does not mean we've identified\" the crash's 150 victims, Robin said -- noting the recovered DNA still must be compared with DNA submitted by the families of those who died in the crash. Authorities have also found 470 personal effects at the site, according to Robin. That number includes 40 cell phones, though all those were badly damaged. Robin cast doubt that any useful information could be retrieved from those phones, given their condition. That view is consistent with French officials' claims Wednesday insisting that two publications, German daily Bild and French Paris Match, were wrong to report that cell phone video showed the harrowing final seconds from on board the flight. Noting he's made a criminal request to German authorities but is for now conducting his own investigation, the French prosecutor said he is tasked with an involuntary homicide investigation. But Robin noted that Lubitz made voluntary actions -- such as guiding the plane toward the mountain and reducing its speed to prevent alarms from going off -- and was \"alive and conscious\" to the very end. A European official government official with detailed knowledge of the investigation said that Lubitz's actions amount to \"premeditated murder.\" While cautioning that there are still many holes in understanding Lubitz's motivation, the disclosures about his Internet searches show that he planned to do what he was going to do, according to this official. Calls for crash avoidance technology . It is becoming increasingly clear to investigators that Lubitz was \"very afraid\" he would lose his license to fly because of his medical issues, a law enforcement source with detailed knowledge of the investigation told CNN on Thursday. It's already emerged that Lubitz had battled depression years before he took the controls of Flight 9525 and that he had concealed from his employer recent medical leave notes saying he was unfit for work. But the law enforcement source said that after a severe depressive episode in 2009, Lubitz relapsed with severe depression and stress in late 2014. In the weeks leading up to the crash, Lubitz was shopping doctors, seeing at least five, perhaps as many as six, the source said, as he kept going from one doctor to the next seeking help, including from a sleep specialist. He was prescribed powerful medication, though it's not clear he was taking it. Opinion: What if my patient is a pilot? CNN's Margot Haddad reported from Marseille, and Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London. CNN's Pamela Brown and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.", "token_length": 1139}
