{"text": "London (CNN)British police investigating a spectacular heist in the heart of London's jewelry district said Friday they knew a burglar alarm went off but didn't respond. Southern Monitoring Alarm Company called the Metropolitan Police Service, also known as Scotland Yard, at 12:21 a.m. April 3 to report that the burglar alarm had been activated at Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd., MPS said in a prepared statement. \"The call was recorded and transferred to the police's CAD (computer-aided dispatch) system,\" the statement said. \"A grade was applied to the call that meant that no police response was deemed to be required. We are now investigating why this grade was applied to the call. This investigation is being carried out locally. \"It is too early to say if the handling of the call would have had an impact on the outcome of the incident.\" The theft was so big that police haven't come up with a value for what was stolen. Over the four-day Easter holiday, thieves broke into the vault of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. and might have been able to take as long as four days to rifle through the boxes. A former police official in London has speculated that the loss could run to £200 million, or $300 million, in a remark widely reported by news media. Numerous British news organizations put the value of the loss in the hundreds of thousands of pounds. Detective Chief Inspector Paul Johnson of the London Metropolitan Police Flying Squad said police were still identifying the owners of ransacked safe deposit boxes and trying to contact them to learn what had been lost. The British tabloid The Daily Mirror claimed Friday to have obtained closed-circuit TV footage that captured the robbery being carried out. The video showed people inside the building dressed like utility workers with their faces covered. They carried large bags, what looked like drill equipment and other tools, then exited with trash bins. Toward the end of the video, a white van can be seen on a street during daytime with individuals loading back their gear and the trash bins. British police told CNN they have not released any video of the heist. When asked about the video published by the Daily Mirror, police said they could not confirm that it was footage from the Hatton Garden robbery and that officers have not seen that particular video. The Daily Mirror published time-stamped images it said showed that the thieves had been -- as was feared -- in the vault for days. The Mirror's time stamps, which CNN has not been able to independently verify, show employees locking up for the weekend at 9:19 p.m. on Thursday. If the footage, and its interpretation by the newspaper are correct, at least six people were involved in the heist . Just four minutes later, the first of the thieves, nicknamed \"Mr. Ginger\" by the newspaper for his red hair, appears in the building holding a black bag. He goes downstairs toward the vault. At 9:27 p.m., a street camera shows a white Ford Transit van pulling up to an alley beside the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit building. Men are seen dragging trash bins down the alley before the van drives away, leaving the men behind. Inside the building, at 9:30p.m., the camera records a thief nicknamed \"The Gent\" for his natty clothing -- though he also wears a hard-hat and a high-visibility jacket labeled \"Gas\" on the back. A minute later, \"Mr. Strong\" appears, wearing a builder's hat and carrying steel supports, which the newspaper speculates could have been used to support the diamond-tipped drill used to smash through the wall of the vault. At 9:36 p.m., Mr. Strong and a thief nicknamed Mr. Montana for the logo on his hooded sweatshirt roll in trash bins, one of which might have contained, according the Mirror, the 77-pound drill that bored through the reinforced seven-foot concrete wall to reach the vault. It is unclear, but the thieves may have spent the night in the basement in or near the vault. At any rate, according to the Daily Mirror, no more activity is seen above ground until Friday morning, shortly before 8:00. The white van returns, is loaded in two minutes, and drives off again. On Saturday evening, Mr. Ginger returns, two days after he was first seen. The newspaper says is wearing latex gloves and carrying a black sack. He goes downstairs toward the vault. Saturday evening also marked the first appearance of the Tall Man, who helped carry some of the loot out of the building. Early Sunday, Mr Ginger, the Tall Man and a robber nicknamed the Old Man are seen to be active. The Tall Man and the Old Man struggle to move a bin before they drag it outside. The Old Man leans on the bin, struggling for breath, and reveals the side of his face to the camera. A white van arrives by the alley and the men start loading equipment on it, including several trash bins. Three men get into the white van and, at 6:44 a.m. they are gone. The heist would not be reported to police for two more days, on Tuesday morning when employees of the company arrived for work. Police said Thursday there was no sign of forced entry. Johnson said the thieves appeared to have gained access to the vault through the shaft of an elevator that is used by several businesses in the building. The thieves disabled the elevator on the second floor of the building -- which would be called the third floor in the United States -- then climbed down the elevator shaft into the basement, he said. Once there, he said, they used a drill to bore through a 6-foot-thick wall and gain access to the vault where the safe deposit boxes were. People with knowledge of the area have speculated that cash and jewels were probably taken. Some jewelry businesses reportedly stored some of their jewels in the boxes rather than leaving it in their stores over the holiday weekend. Johnson said the scene in the vault remained chaotic as police continued their forensic examination. He said the floor was covered with dust and littered with safe deposit boxes and power tools. WATCH: Top five jewelry heists . Johnson called the crime sophisticated and said there were a limited number of people in the United Kingdom capable of pulling it off. He said he had no idea whether the thieves were still in the country. Although there was no sign of forced entry to the building, the detective said, \"whether that involves inside knowledge will form part of the investigation.\" Hatton Garden is a storied area in London and the heart of the city's diamond trade. The area's promotional website says it is home to \"the largest and most concentrated cluster of jewellery retailers in the UK\" and has been for quite some time. \"History tells us that the old City of London had certain streets -- or quarters -- dedicated to specific types of business,\" the website says. \"The Hatton Garden area has been the epicentre of London's jewellery trade since medieval times. \"Today, it maintains its international reputation as the centre of London's diamond trade. It is one of the finest and most renowned jewellery locations in the world.\" How was $4.8 million in gold swiped from a North Carolina highway? The website of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. says the company was founded in 1954 and offers a \"secure and cost-effective solution to store and protect important and irreplaceable personal belongings.\"", "token_length": 1768}
{"text": "(CNN)By now, you probably have a position regarding the controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law. You applaud the growing chorus of companies blasting the law as an invitation for businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians, using religion as a cover. Or, like Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, you are surprised at the backlash and maintain that it is basically a copy of a law that is already in the books at the federal level and 19 other states. The issue drives a wedge because, well, the debate over religious freedom and gay rights is always heated, but also because the interpretations and motives behind the law can be questioned. Whichever side you're on, here are five things you might not have considered when thinking about this controversy. These points might not change your mind, but offer context to better understand the uproar. As the author of the 1993 federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), Sen. Chuck Schumer is one who can offer clarity over the controversy surrounding Indiana's version of the law. Schumer mocks Indiana's contention that the state law is simply a mirror of the 22-year-old federal law. \"That may be true only if you're using a Funhouse mirror,\" Schumer wrote on his Facebook page. The federal law was intended to protect individual's religious freedom from government intervention, he said. The Indiana law justifies discrimination in the name of religious freedom, he contends. Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said. So, how can the law's supporters claim it is basically a copy of the federal law? If you look at the purpose of the law, the language in the federal and Indiana religious freedom laws are indeed  nearly indistinguishable. In short --  the government cannot interfere with a person's religious practices unless there is a compelling government interest to do so. The uproar is over that fact that the Indiana law expands the reach of the religious protections to include private companies and cases where the government is not involved. Other states previously passed their own version of the religious freedom law -- Indiana became the 20th. But other state laws mirror the federal law much more closely than the Indiana law does. The key difference in the Indiana law is that it expands the instances where someone can use religious freedom as a defense. This is how it could make a difference: . In 2006, Vanessa Willock contacted a photographer about shooting her commitment ceremony with her partner. This was in New Mexico, a state with a religious freedom law at the time of the dispute. The company, Elane Photography, refused the job because of the co-owner's religious beliefs. Willock sued Elane Photography for discrimination, and the company defended itself by citing the law. The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity. What would happen if that case happened today in Indiana, with the new, expanded religious freedom law? For sure, the case would have proceeded to trial, said Tim Holbrook, a law professor at Emory University. The photography studio would have had the chance to make its argument in court that it denied the service because of religious reasons. Would the outcome have been the same? Would an Indiana jury side with the company that refused service to a couple because of their sexual orientation? In a letter expressing concern about the Indiana law, a group of 30 legal scholars argued that what Indiana has done is expanded the scope of the law to the point that religious considerations might trump discrimination concerns. \"In our expert opinion, the clear evidence ... unmistakably demonstrates that the broad language of the proposed state RFRA will more likely create confusion, conflict, and a wave of litigation that will threaten the clarity of religious liberty rights in Indiana while undermining the state's ability to enforce other compelling interests,\" the letter, whose signatories included many Indiana law professors, stated. These concerns are based on speculation of what might happen, said Josh Blackman, a constitutional law professor at South Texas College of Law. Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said. \"But, just because you raise the defense does not mean it will be successful.\" Those who try to defend their discriminatory actions in court tend to lose, Blackman said. In his opinion, if Elane Photography had been able to use the law as a defense in New Mexico, it still likely would have lost the case. What's clear is that Indiana's law increases the potential pool of people who can defend themselves claiming religious freedom. The success of such arguments is to be seen. In the meantime, some are already hatching plans on how to test the law, including Bill Levin, founder of The First Church Of Cannabis, who argued on CNN that the law should protect his right to smoke pot. Much is being made of the fact that the first religious freedom law was signed by President Bill Clinton more than 20  years ago. There was bipartisan support in 1993, so why the commotion over a similar law in 2015, some ask? Context, timing and intent have changed the way these laws are viewed. The federal law was written by two Democrats, Schumer and the late Sen. Edward Kennedy. Today, it is being championed by Republicans. The law came into being after two Native Americans in Oregon were fired from their jobs at a rehab clinic because they had consumed peyote, the hallucinogenic cactus. They were denied unemployment benefits, and they sued the state, claiming that the peyote was part of their religious customs. They lost the case. There was outrage over the decision, and the law was created as a remedy. As envisioned by its authors, it would protect the freedoms of religious minorities. Over the years, the law helped a number of people -- a Muslim prisoner won the right to grow a short beard, a Santeria priest was allowed to sacrifice a goat on special religious occasions, and a Native American boy received an exception to his school's policy banning long hair on boys. The law was on the books for years, with little attention paid to it. But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps. Many states are using the laws to carve out exceptions to allow Christians to deny services to same-sex couples. Holbrook said. \"The timing is beyond a coincidence,\" he said. \"We are having an interest in RFRA at the time same-sex marriage is coming forward.\" Though not enshrined in the law, critics accuse the states pursuing the laws of using them to justify discrimination by the majority religion. Blackman said the history of the state religious freedom laws shows that they have not turned into conduits for discrimination. The expanded laws might mean more people will defend themselves using it, but most will likely lose, he said. \"The moral outrage over this reflects how uninformed people are on the history of the RFRA,\" he said. So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters. Not so fast. According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform. Four U.S. circuit courts of appeals have ruled that the federal law can be used as a defense in cases involving private parties. Two other appeals courts have ruled that this is not allowed. And then, there is the Hobby Lobby case. Hobby Lobby, citing the federal religious freedom law, argued that it should not have to provide contraception coverage through insurance to its employees via Obamacare because it was against the owners' beliefs. And, Hobby Lobby won the case before the Supreme Court. The ruling, in effect, expanded the reach of the federal law to include a business. The Hobby Lobby decision, plus the appeals courts rulings, may have opened the door for states like Indiana to be explicit about its expansion of the law. One way to look at it, Blackman said, is that Indiana simply clarified and codified something that is hazy in the federal courts. The outrage over the Indiana law is that it can be used to deny services to the LGBT community on the ground of religious beliefs. Some may rightfully ask, \"Where was the outrage before the religious freedom law?\" Indiana does not have an nondiscrimination law that protects people based on sexual orientation or gender identity. In that sense, the religious freedom law is not necessary for those who want to discriminate against gays and lesbians. Even before the controversial Indiana law was passed, if a restaurant denied service to a gay couple, the couple might be able to sue, but not for discrimination. For that matter, there is also no federal law that protects the LGBT community. According to the Human Rights Campaign, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are sometimes fired, denied a promotion or harassed in the workplace. And their recourse is limited. With the proliferation of religious freedom state laws, nondiscrimination laws become even more important. Another hypothetical outcome of the New Mexico case involving the lesbian couple and the photography studio. If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial. But New Mexico has a nondiscrimination law that protects the LGBT community, it and it would have provided a strong counter-argument to the religious freedom claim. In Indiana, that protection would be lacking. (It gets more complicated when some local governments, like the city of Indianapolis, do have nondiscrimination ordinances). For this reason, Holbrook suggests that a \"fix\" for the Indiana law would be the passage of a nondiscrimination law. Or, at the very least, an exception written into the religious freedom bill that protects from such discrimination.", "token_length": 2285}
{"text": "Charleston, South Carolina (CNN)Police officers Saturday accompanied the hearse carrying the body of Walter Scott to his South Carolina funeral service, where hundreds of mourners celebrated his life and death as a catalyst for change in America. A pair of officers on motorcycles were part of the large procession delivering the father of four -- who was fatally shot in the back by a police officer -- to a service open to the public. An overflow crowd gathered on a humid and occasionally rainy April afternoon at W.O.R.D. Ministries Christian Center in Summerville, which has a capacity of about 300 people. The flag-draped casket of the U.S. Coast Guard veteran was wheeled inside the church as Scott's relatives and friends followed. Some dabbed tears; others embraced. Hundreds, including local officials, assembled inside the packed sanctuary -- in corridors, under an awning at the entrance, wherever they could stand. Silence filled the vast space as Scott's daughter Samantha read a poem of love dedicated to her father. Anthony Scott said God had selected his brother as a candidate for change in America. \"The change will come,\" he said, bringing to the crowd to its feet. The head of the church, George Hamilton, spoke of how Scott had brought members of his family to the church, of the agony of not only losing a family member but having to watch it happen on video. The death of Scott, who was black, at the hands of a white police officer was \"motivated by racial prejudice,\" Hamilton said. It was \"an act of overt racism.\" \"Hate came because Walter was an African-American,\" he said. Hamilton said his remarks were not meant as an indictment of law enforcement, but he singled out the officer who killed Scott as a \"disgrace to the North Charleston Police Department.\" \"There is gong to be change,\" he said. \"Walter's death will not be in vain.\" After the service, pallbearers gently lifted Scott's casket into the hearse. Crowds poured from the church. A slow-moving procession of black cars then made its way to Live Oak Memorial Gardens in Charleston for the private burial. Chris Stewart, an attorney for the Scott family, said the death represented more than an race issue. \"It's a human issue,\" he said. \"We're getting emails from people in Arkansas telling us, 'I'm a white male, and I'm supporting this family.' Their son is going to be remembered for changing the way we look at each other.\" On Friday night, Scott's open casket was draped with an American flag, and he was in a dark suit for his private visitation in Charleston. A Dallas Cowboys banner -- his favorite NFL team -- was placed outside the casket, and a figurine of a Cowboys player stood at his side. But Scott's family was missing. They needed privacy, said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley, who attended. A week ago, Scott was killed in North Charleston after getting pulled over for a broken taillight. A passer-by caught the shooting on cell phone video, and Officer Michael Slager was swiftly charged with murder. He was fired and faces life in prison or the death penalty if convicted. Who was Walter Scott? The video shows Scott running from an officer, who fires eight shots. Scott is struck five times; he falls to the ground. \"Nothing in this video demonstrates that the officer's life or the life of another was threatened,\" National Urban League President Marc Morial said. \"The question here is whether the use of force was excessive.\" But one witness is speaking of a struggle before the shooting. And at least one expert believes a murder charge may not hold up. On Thursday, Gwen Nichols told CNN's Brian Todd that she saw Scott and Slager scuffling at the entrance to a vacant lot. \"It was like a tussle type of thing, like, you know, like, 'What do you want?' or 'What did I do?' type of thing,\" Nichols said. \"I didn't hear Mr. Slager saying 'Stop!' \" Nichols' account has similarities to Slager's. He had told investigators that he had tussled with Scott over his Taser and that he feared for his safety. A timeline of events . Criminal defense attorney Paul Callan said he believes Slager's defense will play up the reported scuffle in arguing that this is not a murder case. \"Defense attorneys will say this was a heat of passion shooting -- (that) this was something that he did suddenly after some kind of an altercation, a physical altercation with a suspect,\" Callan said. \"And that would constitute manslaughter under law, as opposed to murder, and it makes a huge difference in sentencing.\" In South Carolina, a murder conviction requires a measure of premeditation. But the account from the witness who recorded the cell phone video, Feidin Santana, paints a different picture. He was walking to work when he saw Slager on top of Scott, he said, who was on the ground. Santana said he could hear the sound of a Taser in use. He said he didn't see Scott go after the Taser, as Slager initially claimed. He said he believes Scott was trying to get away. \"Mr. Scott never tried to fight,\" Santana said. Neither the struggle nor the use of a Taser was captured on video, because Santana started recording shortly after that. Investigators from the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division found troubling inconsistencies from the very start, it said in a statement. \"We believed early on that there was something not right about what happened in that encounter,\" division Chief Mark Keel said in a statement. \"The cell phone video shot by a bystander confirmed our initial suspicions.\" Slager's lawyer, Andy Savage, has complained that he \"has not received the cooperation from law enforcement that the media has.\" Savage's office said in a statement that it has yet to receive \"any investigative documents, audio or video tapes, other than a copy of Mr. Slager's arrest warrant.\" The news release added that the lawyer has been advised that the police union that Slager belongs to \"is no longer involved in the case.\" Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said Slager's wife, Jamie, who is eight months' pregnant, and his mother had a visit with him at the county detention center Friday.  Slager was being held in isolation and being \"monitored for his mental health,\" Cannon said. In a statement, one of Slager's lawyers said the meeting lasted about an hour. \"His wife and mom were tearful but strong, and they were all very grateful for the chance to see him in person, even if separated by a thick pane of glass,\" the statement said. \"They held up family photos -- and even Jamie's ultrasound from earlier that day -- to remind him of all those who love him. Throughout the visit, Michael was focused on Jamie and their baby and was very relieved to know that she is being shown so much love and support by their families.\" A second video, taken from a police dash cam, has also emerged from the day Scott died. It shows moments before  the shooting, when things seemed to be going smoothly between Scott and Slager. Scott apparently tells the officer that he has no insurance on the vehicle, and Slager returns to his car to do paperwork. Then Scott gets out of the car and runs out of the camera's frame. Scott was the subject of a bench warrant over $18,104.43 in unpaid child support at the time of the stop, according to court records. That was why he ran, lawyers for the family said after the funeral service. U.S. Rep. James Clyburn, D-South Carolina, told reporters outside the service that Scott lost a $35,000-a-year job the first time he was jailed for failing to pay child support. \"He said it was the best job he's ever had,\" Clyburn said. \"Now you have to ask ... if you want to collect child support, there's got to be income. And you ain't going to make much income from jail. It seems to me that we need to take a look to how to deal with that issue without causing unemployment and the loss of freedom.\" On Friday afternoon, police met with a man who was in Scott's car, but the passenger's name wasn't in a police report obtained by CNN. He was detained briefly after the shooting, one officer wrote in the report. Scott family attorney Chris Stewart said he was a co-worker and friend. But he did not identify the passenger by name. On Friday, a few mourners trickled into the Fielding Home for Funerals. A white banner with a blue star near Scott's casket displayed his favorite NFL team. It said: \"Tradition, the Cowboys way.\" \"This is a heartbreaking tragedy for everyone in our community,\" said Riley, the mayor. \"It breaks everyone's hearts.\" CNN's Polo Sandoval and Martin Savidge reported from Charleston, and Ben Brumfield and Ray Sanchez reported and wrote in Atlanta and New York.", "token_length": 2097}
{"text": "Lausanne, Switzerland (CNN)A roller-coaster series of talks wrapped up Thursday in Lausanne as a group of world powers known as the P5+1 reached a framework agreement with Iran over the country's nuclear program. The success of that agreement remains to be seen. The parties have until the end to June to work out the details and put the plan to paper. But the talks this week were, nevertheless, historic, particularly for the otherwise frozen U.S.-Iranian relationship. But that's not to say they were glamorous. In fact, the negotiations this week provided a modern demonstration of diplomacy at its best, but also at its most hectic. Tucked amid the Swiss Alps on the shores of Lake Geneva, Lausanne is certainly one of the more scenic places to be trapped for talks -- a sort of Camp David for the rich and famous. But make no mistake: The site of these negotiations is also a gilded cage. Over the course of the eight-day round of talks, negotiators, their delegations, their security details and reporters were confined primarily to the immediate area around the five-star Beau-Rivage Palace Hotel, which played host to the negotiations. This isn't the first time the hotel has provided a backdrop to a major diplomatic event. In 1923, the Treaty of Lausanne was signed there, breaking up the Ottoman Empire and defining the borders of modern-day Turkey. More recently, the hotel has been a getaway for wealthy tourists and the occasional celebrity. Coco Chanel famously lived there in the late 1940s and early 1950s, and even had her dog buried on the hotel grounds, some reports say. 'It was tough, very intense at times' The setting is idyllic, and the grounds are beautifully maintained. The first-floor terrace even features a large-scale chess board, which served this week as an artful analogy for the game of nuclear chess going on just inside. For the negotiators, the past week was marked by a marathon run of meetings, sometimes lasting throughout the night. In an interview with CNN shortly after the framework agreement was announced, Secretary of State John Kerry said, \"I think there was a seriousness of purpose\" in meetings with the Iranians. \"People negotiated hard,\" he added. \"It was tough, very intense at times, sometimes emotional and confrontational.\" That sentiment was echoed by Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif even as the talks were still going on. Over the past 18 months since talks began, Zarif said, negotiators have \"developed personal respect\" for one another, even though serious mistrust still exists between Iran and the Western powers. \"We have a very serious problem of confidence -- mutual lack of confidence we need to address -- and we hope that this process will remedy some of that,\" he added. Media give-and-take . Zarif made these comments to reporters who swarmed him during an afternoon walk along the lake Thursday. Such ambushes were a frequent occurrence during the talks as reporters tried to supplement what little information was being circulated through official channels. Kerry was seen riding a bike on at least one occasion and dining at a nearby crepery on another, with both occasions prompting a cacophony of camera flashes. Reporters briefly followed Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi as he took a morning jog shortly after his arrival in Lausanne on Sunday. And Zarif took several lakeside walks with advisers and security personnel, perhaps just hoping to take in the view, but certainly not making any effort to bypass the area where television cameras were staked out around the clock. The officials sometimes bemoaned the media circus, but they also used the attention to bolster their demands during negotiations, making statements to reporters that they hoped strengthened their footing in talks with their foreign counterparts. \"People often use you guys to deliver messages to the negotiation,\" a senior administration official who asked not to be named told reporters on the flight back to Lausanne, \"as do the Iranians.\" \"I think they're quite skilled, actually, at using the media to deliver messages and to try to shape the frame of the negotiation,\" the official said. Different orbits . More than 600 reporters were credentialed to cover the talks this week. Many of these were based in a large workspace at the nearby Olympic Museum. Meanwhile, the traveling press corps covering the foreign ministers were given coveted red badges, allowing them access to the hotel, where the talks took place. While these journalists had a bit more access to officials, they were usually cordoned off inside a couple of claustrophobic media rooms and barred access to most of the building, including the hotel's reception desk, the first-floor restrooms and the two-Michelin-star restaurant's entrees, costing 200 francs or more. Many journalists found refuge in the more comfortable downstairs bar, a shorter walk from the cameras and satellite trucks used around the clock by television reporters on a rolling deadline. For meals, the crowd dispersed to a dozen or so nearby restaurants, where they could enjoy 25-franc pizzas and 60-franc hamburgers, washed down with 8-franc bottles of water, of course. Also popular: a Thai place around the corner that offered quick takeout -- a plus for reporters on a deadline. 'We'd all take deep breaths and try again' In the closed-off wings of the Beau-Rivage, the pace of meetings was frantic as different subsets of delegates gathered in ornate conference rooms. There was a sense of urgency, both before and after the initial March 31 deadline passed, to reach a final understanding so the foreign ministers could leave Switzerland ahead of other time commitments, not to mention the Easter holiday. The process was further complicated by restrictions on the flight crew for Kerry's plane, which could stay on standby at the airport for only a limited number of hours in a given time period. \"We'd get close, we kept on changing the plane schedule,\" a senior administration official told reporters. \"It would go, it wouldn't go; we had to reset the clock.\" On the evening the understanding was finally announced, the window had already lapsed, requiring Kerry and his team to depart at 3 a.m. Friday. There were \"many moments (throughout the negotiations) when we thought we'd call it a day, call it a night, decide we'd gone as far as we could go,\" said the official, who briefed reporters on Kerry's plane. \"Then we'd all take deep breaths and try again.\" But perhaps the most difficult night for negotiators was between Wednesday and Thursday, just before the final sticking points were resolved for a deal. \"It was a very, very intense,\" said the official. \"It went from 9 -- about 9 in the evening until 6 in the morning when we all decided we'd reached a couple of roadblocks, didn't know whether we'd be able to get past them, and we were all utterly, utterly exhausted.\" \"So we all went to sleep by maybe 7, got up again and started again about 9:30, and engaged on what we thought were the really final issues,\" the official added. Rushing to report the agreement . That morning, the deal began to solidify, and plans for the announcement were set into motion. The announcement that an agreement had been reached sparked some chaos. It was first sent out by the European delegation, which spread the word to its traveling press corps even as negotiators were still meeting. As news began to get out, one European reporter ran frantically into the media area at the hotel, urging everyone to listen. His message: There's going to be an announcement. There are buses waiting to take you to the auditorium of a nearby university where it will take place. And with that, the room devolved into chaos as journalists ran for the doors. The eight-day-long diplomatic event had hit its crescendo before finally subsiding. By midday Friday, the delegations had left Lausanne, along with most of the media, returning the scenic Swiss city to its more tranquil pace.", "token_length": 1910}
{"text": "(CNN)Authorities in South Carolina have released dash cam video in connection with the fatal shooting of Walter Scott, but the footage does not show the actual shooting. Video from the patrol car of North Charleston's Michael Slager shows an initial traffic stop and early interactions between the officer and Scott. Slager approaches Scott's vehicle. The two men speak. Scott tells the officer he does not have insurance and is in the process of purchasing the vehicle. Slager then returns to his patrol car. Scott exits his vehicle, briefly, and Slager tells him to stay in the car. Scott then gets out of the car, again, and runs away, out of the range of the dash cam. The video, which was released Thursday, also shows a passenger in Scott's car. The passenger's identity was not given in a police report obtained by CNN, but another officer responding to the incident said in the report that the passenger was detained and placed in the back seat of a police vehicle. Scott family attorney Chris Stewart told CNN the man with Scott was a co-worker and friend. He did not identify the friend by name. When asked what might have motivated Scott to run, Justin Bamberg, another attorney for the family, speculated that Scott might have been concerned about child support issues. Scott owed back payments on child support totaling $18,104.43, according to Charleston County family court documents obtained by CNN. He had a bench warrant issued against him for failure to pay at the time he was stopped by Slager. But Bamberg was adamant the dash cam video does not alter what happened. \"This dash cam footage does not change the fact that at the moment the officer shot and killed Mr. Scott -- that shooting was completely unjustified. And that is the key point of both the criminal investigation and the civil lawsuit,\" the lawyer said. The North Charleston Police Department is not providing more information, citing an ongoing investigation of Scott's killing that's being conducted by the independent South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED). Many questions remain about what happened on Saturday when Officer Slager pulled Scott over for what police have said was a broken taillight. In the police report that CNN obtained, a responding officer said that Slager said that at one point he started to chase Scott down a street. \"Shots fired and the subject is down,\" the officer writes that Slager said. \"He took my Taser.\" But a witness who shot cell phone video of the incident says he never saw Scott try to get Slager's Taser. Feidin Santana was walking to work when he saw Slager and Scott struggle on the ground, he told NBC's Lester Holt on Wednesday. Santana then took out his phone and started recording video. \"I remember the police (officer) had control of the situation. He had control of Scott,\" Santana said. Then, Santana said, he heard the sound of a Taser. It seemed to Santana that Scott was trying to get away and avoid being zapped with the Tasered again. On Thursday, a second witness spoke to CNN about what she saw. Gwen Nichols said she was in the neighborhood when she heard police cars speeding by and, curious, she followed them. She saw Scott and Slager at the entrance to a vacant lot. \"It was like a tussle type of thing, like, you know, like, 'What do you want?' or 'What did I do?' type of thing,\" said Nichols, who said she has not yet talked to police about what she saw. \"I didn't hear Mr. Slager saying: 'Stop!' \" she said. Feidin showed the video to the Scott family. But Santana has said fear for his own life almost kept him from revealing the tape. In interviews with MSNBC and NBC, Santana recalled the moments when he recorded the video. \"I ... thought about erasing the video,\" Santana told MSNBC's \"All in With Chris Hayes\" in an interview that aired Wednesday evening. \"I felt that my life, with this information, might be in danger.\" The video shows Slager shooting eight times at Scott as Scott runs away. Witness: I nearly erased shooting video out of fear . An autopsy showed that Scott suffered multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body. Before the officer starts firing his gun in the video, a dark object falls behind him and hits the ground. It's not clear whether that is the Taser. Later in the video, when the officer approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man. It's also not clear whether that is the Taser. It's unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body. Slager has been fired and charged with murder. He is white. Scott, who was unarmed, was black. Timeline of events . Scott's shooting stirred memories of the Michael Brown case in Ferguson, Missouri, where an unarmed black teenager was killed by a white police officer. A grand jury declined to indict the officer in that case. But not everyone agreed that Scott's case is like Brown's or that race was a factor. Asked how he felt about Slager being charged with murder, Santana answered that \"no one can feel happy.\" \"He has his family, and Mr. Scott also has his family,\" he told Holt. \"But I think, you know, he made a bad decision. ... Mr. Scott didn't deserve this. And there were other ways that can be used to get him arrested. And that wasn't the proper way to do that.\" Lessons learned from Ferguson to North Charleston . The FBI is investigating, as is SLED. \"I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw,\" North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters Wednesday. Mayor Keith Summey spoke at the same news conference, which was repeatedly interrupted by protesters who chanted: \"No justice! No peace!\" They called for the mayor to step down. Summey said that the city has ordered an additional 150 body cameras \"so every officer on the street\" in the city will have one. That is in addition to 101 body cameras already ordered, he said. Just before the conference was set to begin, demonstrators walked in. They were led by a man wearing a \"Black Lives Matter\" T-shirt who shouted, \"This is what democracy looks like!\" 2010 census data show that North Charleston is 47% black and 42% white. The makeup of the city's Police Department is unclear, though it's been widely reported that 2007 federal figures indicated it was about 80% black. Three of 10 City Council members are black. It's unclear what Slager's motivation was, or if race played a part in Scott's slaying. \"We can't get into the brain of another individual, so we can't state that,\" Scott family attorney Stewart said. \"I think it would be irresponsible to say that and try and inflame a community or anything of that nature.\" If convicted, Slager could face life in prison or the death penalty. Who is Officer Slager? An autopsy of Scott showed that he \"sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body,\" and his death was the result of a homicide, the Charleston County Coroner's Office said. Asked whether CPR was performed on Scott after Slager shot him, Driggers said: \"In the end of it (the video), what I saw was (what I) believed to be a police officer removing the shirt of the individual and performing some type of life-saving (procedure), but I'm not sure what took place there.\" When Scott's brother Anthony saw the video, he was convinced Slager's account of what happened was not true, he told CNN. \"There was not a struggle for the Taser,\" Anthony Scott said. \"I didn't believe my brother would have done that anyway.\" To  Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was \"running for his life\" away from the officer. \"I think my brother was thinking he was not going to be shot, no one would have thought that,\" Scott said. Family members have adamantly repeated that they don't want protests over Scott's slaying to become violent. And, so far, the demonstrations have been passionate but peaceful. Scott's mother, Judy Scott, told CNN's Anderson Cooper that she feels \"forgiveness in my heart, even for the guy that shot and killed my son.\" \"He was a loving son, a loving father,\" she said. \"He cared about his family and ... no matter what happens, it will not replace my son.\" Who was Walter Scott? CNN's Tony Marco, Ryan Scallan, Christine Bear, Tristan Smith, Martin Savidge, Brian Todd, Dana Ford, Sam Stringer and Evan Perez contributed to this report.", "token_length": 2034}
{"text": "Boston (CNN)After weeks of dramatic testimony, jurors are set to begin deliberations Tuesday in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who faces life in prison or  the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon. The defense and prosecution made closing arguments in the case on Monday. \"The defendant brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets,\" Assistant U.S. Attorney Aloke Chakravarty said. \"The defendant thought that his values were more important than the people around him. He wanted to awake the mujahideen, the holy warriors, so he chose Patriots Day, Marathon Monday,\" a time for families to gather and watch the marathon. Bomb survivors and victims' family members wiped away tears and comforted each other in court. Tsarnaev fidgeted at the defense table as he has done throughout the trial. Bill Richard, father of 8-year-old bomb victim Martin Richard, craned his neck to watch Tsarnaev as the prosecutor spoke. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev \"chose a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston,\" Chakravarty said. \"He chose a day when there would be civilians on the sidewalks and he targeted those civilians: men, women and children.\" The lawyer waited a beat. \"He wanted to terrorize this country. He wanted to punish America for what it was doing to his people.\" The prosecutor showed a picture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan in the marathon crowd. The day of the bombings, Chakravarty said, \"they felt they were soldiers. They were the mujahideen and they were bringing their battle to Boston.\" Tsarnaev, 21 years old, stands accused of 30 counts, including setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event as an act of terrorism. Seventeen of those counts carry a sentence of death or life imprisonment. If Tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one of the 17 capital counts, the trial will proceed to a second phase, the so-called penalty phase. That part of the trial will include evidence of aggravating and mitigating factors, and the jury will be asked to weigh elements that make this crime especially heinous against details from Tsarnaev's background and mental health history that would weigh in his favor. Since testimony began on March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. It seemed a mismatch from the start. \"He was there,\" defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life. The prosecution on Monday played a graphic video of the scene of the bombing that showed a chaotic, bloody scene with injured people everywhere. A child's piercing cries are heard. It's the son of Rebekah Gregory, who lost her leg. Then, another photo is displayed. This time jurors see Tsarnaev standing by a tree behind the family of little Martin Richard. \"These children weren't innocent to him,\" the prosecutor said. \"They were American. He knew what that bag was designed to do.\" Chakravarty quoted Bill Richard, Martin's father, who earlier testified, \"I guess we were just unlucky that day.\" But luck had nothing to do with the Boston bombings, the prosecutor said. \"This was a cold, intentional, terrorist act,\" he said. The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, \"to make a point. To tell America, 'We won't be terrorized by you anymore. We will terrorize you.' \" The defense has maintained that Tsarnaev, who was 19 and flunking out of college at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, fell under the sway of his older, more radicalized brother. \"It was Tamerlan,\" defense attorney Clarke repeated during her closing argument Monday. \"In the past few weeks we have come face to face with tragedy, suffering and grief in dimensions none of us could imagine,\" she said. \"We've heard words, we've heard screams and we've heard cries. For this suffering and pain there is no excuse.\" She acknowledged her client participated in a \"senseless act.\" But he was only following his brother, she insisted. \"If not for Tamerlan, it would not have happened,\" Clarke argued. The older brother, a 26-year-old former Golden Gloves boxer, had hoped to wage jihad and his slacker younger brother was just along for the ride, the defense has said. During the 15-minute rebuttal period, prosecutor William Weinreb told jurors not to be distracted by the defense's \"attempt to point the finger at somebody else.\" \"There should be no doubt in your mind that the defendant and his brother are equally guilty,\" he said. They were \"partners in crime.\" Weinreb pointed out that after the bombing Tsarnaev went to the grocery store. \"Tamerlan Tsarnaev didn't turn his brother into a murderer. To shred the bodies of women and children with a homemade type of bomb, you have to be different from other people,\" the prosecutor said. If you are capable of such hate, such callousness that you can murder and maim 20 people and then drive to Whole Foods and buy some milk, can you really blame it on your brother?\" From the start, prosecutors presented a compelling case in which the horrors of April 15 to 19, 2013, were vividly brought to life once again. They began with the stories of bombing survivors and first responders, who described acts of courage and compassion amid madness and chaos. The final moments of the three Boston Marathon spectators who died were recounted by the people who were by their sides. According to testimony, Tamerlan Tsarnaev set off a bomb made from a 6-quart pressure cooker, explosive powder from fireworks, duct tape, nails and BBs on Boylston Street near the finish line. That bomb, which exploded near Marathon Sports, claimed the life of Krystle Campbell, a 29-yeaer-old restaurant manager. Twelve seconds later, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev allegedly detonated a second, similar bomb outside the Forum restaurant, slightly more than a block away. That blast killed the boy, Martin Richard, and Lingzi Lu, 23, a graduate student from China. Chakravarty's voice grew soft Monday as he recalled the victims: . Richard's 69-pound body \"was shattered, broken, eviscerated, burned. There wasn't a part of this boy's body that wasn't destroyed.\" Lu \"received blast injuries all over her body. Her leg was torn open and she bled out.\" Krystle Campbell died in less than a minute from \"massive blast injuries to her lower extremities. Parts of her body were shredded.\" Sean Collier, the MIT campus police officer killed three days after the bombings, \"never had a chance.\" He was shot between the eyes. \"They assassinated him.\" The brothers allegedly killed the 26-year-old officier for his service weapon but couldn't pry it loose from a safety holster. Dun Meng told the jury about his frightening 90 minutes with two carjackers, one who admitted being involved in the marathon bombing. He identified that person as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Police fired 210 rounds at the brothers when they tracked a GPS device in Meng's stolen Mercedes and cornered them in Watertown, Massachusetts. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev struck Tamerlan, who was wounded, when he charged police in the car. Tamerlan died of his injuries. \"Tamerlan wanted suicide by cop,\" the prosecutor said Monday. \"He was ready for heaven. But the defendant had other plans.\" Dzhokhar ditched the stolen car and sought shelter in a dry-docked boat parked in a trailer in a backyard in Watertown. As he hid, he used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called a \"manifesto,\" in which he said he was jealous of his brother for dying as a martyr and reaching paradise. He also lashed out at the United States for policies he said killed Muslims, writing, \"I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished. We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all.\" Federal prosecutors also presented evidence gleaned from searches of the brothers' computers, including militant literature written by top al Qaeda leaders. And they traced the purchase of the pressure cookers, ammunition and BBs, which appeared to have been made by Tamerlan. Boston Marathon Terror Attack Fast Facts .", "token_length": 2065}
{"text": "(CNN)More than 22 months ago, the body of Odin Lloyd was found in an industrial park in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. Lloyd had been shot seven times near a pile of construction waste. The semipro football player for the Boston Bandits was 27. Days after he was found dead, then-NFL star Aaron Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder. Testimony in the case against Hernandez began in January. On Wednesday, a Fall River, Massachusetts, jury -- after deliberating 35 hours over the course of seven days -- found the former New England patriots tight end guilty of first-degree murder, which carries a penalty of life without parole,  as well as unlawful possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition. Hernandez also faces murder charges in a 2012 double homicide. He has pleaded not guilty. Just two years ago, he was one of the NFL's most promising tight ends, inking a $40-million contract extension with the New England Patriots. Friends and fans alike wondered: How could the star player who had more than 900 receiving yards in 2011 now be on trial for murder? Long before Hernandez made national headlines, he was a standout athlete in Bristol, Connecticut, who came from a family described as a local sports dynasty. \"I don't think there was another family that was more familiar in Bristol,\" Bob Montgomery, who covers high school sports for the Bristol Press, told CNN. The young Hernandez was the \"golden boy,\" playing football, basketball and running track, following in the footsteps of his uncle, older brother and father -- all well-known athletes in the community. Hernandez's father constantly pushed his son, requiring him to practice for hours before he could go out with friends. \"I saw a closeness with them that I'd never seen before,\" Montgomery said of the relationship between Hernandez and his father. But his father, the man who kept the 16-year-old anchored, died from complications after a routine surgery. Hernandez left high school halfway through his senior year in January 2007 to join the University of Florida Gators, and trouble seemed to follow. In just his first semester, a police report says, Hernandez got into a fight at an off-campus restaurant, sucker-punching the manager and rupturing his eardrum. The following fall, there was a shooting near a local club. Police reports linked Hernandez and several other University of Florida football players to an argument in the parking lot. Hernandez was one of more than 20 people interviewed by police, and he was the only one who did not make a statement after invoking his right to counsel. At the time, Hernandez's mother told the Orlando Sentinel newspaper, \"I know he was at the club, but he never saw any shooting.\" The case remains open, and no one has been charged. Hernandez was also suspended at least once for marijuana, an issue that would follow him as he entered the draft his junior year. Trying to put the alleged drug use behind him, Hernandez wrote a letter to the Patriots director of personnel. \"If you draft me as a member of the New England Patriots, I will willfully submit to a biweekly drug test throughout my rookie season. ... In addition, I will tie any guaranteed portion of my 2010 compensation to these drug tests and reimburse the team a pro-rata amount for any failed drug test,\" he wrote, according to the Boston Globe. Before the draft, Hernandez was expected to be a first- or second-round pick. He was passed over until the fourth round, when the Patriots selected him. By the end of his second season, he was a bona fide star, landing the $40 million contract extension. Less than a year after signing the deal, however, the Patriots dropped him on the day he was charged with Lloyd's murder. When Odin Lloyd pulled up in a black Chevrolet suburban, Boston Bandits coach Mike Branch thought something was out of place. Lloyd didn't own a car. Aaron Hernandez case: Who's who? Branch had his suspicions, but he couldn't get answers. Lloyd was too busy telling his friends about the good time he had at the club the previous night. \"He said he was at the club with Mr. Hernandez, and that they were partying and he had a good time, and that Mr. Hernandez spent a good amount of money,\" Branch recalled. Lloyd said Hernandez spent about $10,000 that night. Lloyd's friends say he wasn't a big partier. He was more passionate about football and family. Remembering Odin Lloyd . Lloyd was dating Shaneah Jenkins, the link between the young man who dreamed of the NFL and the all-American who made it. Jenkins is the younger sister of Shayanna, who's engaged to Hernandez and is the mother of his little girl. On June 16, 2013, Lloyd was riding with friends in the black Suburban, which police later learned was rented by Hernandez. Daryl Hodge was with Lloyd when he said Lloyd got a text from Hernandez, asking to hang out later that night. As they parted ways, Lloyd told Hodge he'd see him later. The next day, Lloyd's body was found. Prosecutors say Lloyd was last seen with Hernandez and Hernandez's two associates, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, around 2:30 a.m. in a rented silver Nissan Altima. Surveillance video from security cameras at an industrial park showed an Altima heading toward a secluded area at 3:22 a.m. At the same time, chilling text messages from Lloyd's phone were sent to his sister telling her he was with \"Nfl,\" adding, \"just so u know.\" Between 3:23 and 3:27 a.m., workers nearby reported hearing gunshots. At 3:29, a camera showed an Altima pulling into Hernandez's driveway, about a half a mile from the death scene. Three people got out of the car, and Lloyd was not one of them. Nine days later, Hernandez was arrested and charged with first-degree murder and other weapons-related charges. He pleaded not guilty. In April 2014, Ortiz and Wallace were also charged in Lloyd's slaying. They, too, pleaded not guilty. Prosecutors say the three men were to be tried in a joint venture, a legal term that means it's not necessary to prove who pulled the trigger as long as there is evidence that each defendant actively participated in Lloyd's murder. As the trial for the death of Lloyd neared, lawyers began arguing about evidence, including cell phones and text messages. Some rulings were victories for the defense. The jury wouldn't see the text Lloyd sent to his sister, telling her he was with \"Nfl.\" The judge ruled it hearsay and said the state hadn't proven Lloyd believed his life was in danger. Jurors also didn't hear anything about what happened in Boston on July 16, 2012 -- the night two men were murdered outside a club where Hernandez had been. The judge agreed with defense lawyers that it's far too prejudicial and irrelevant to Lloyd's murder. Investigators allege Hernandez shot and killed Daniel Abreu and Safiro Furtado because one of the men bumped into him on a nightclub dance floor and spilled his drink. District Attorney Patrick Haggan described the scene in a Massachusetts courtroom in May, saying Hernandez became \"angered and increasingly agitated, particularly after Mr. Abreu smiled and did not apologize.\" Prosecutors: Bump, spilled drink led to double homicide . Hernandez's friend tried to calm him down, and the pair walked outside and eventually entered a second club across the street, the prosecutor said. Court documents identify that friend as Alexander Bradley, who would go on to accuse Hernandez of shooting him in the eye in an incident that would take place seven months later. After leaving the second nightclub, Hernandez and the friend returned to their SUV and pulled over on a nearby street where Hernandez removed a revolver from the engine block, Haggan said. Hernandez began trailing Abreu, Furtado and three of their friends in his SUV, authorities said. He then pulled up to the victims' car at a red light and leaned out the driver's side window with a loaded revolver, Haggan told the court. Hernandez allegedly said, \"Yo, what's up now,\" followed by a racial slur, and fired at least five rounds from a .38-caliber revolver, Haggan said. Abreu, the driver, was shot several times and fatally hit in the chest. Furtado was sitting in the front passenger seat and suffered multiple gunshot wounds, including one to the head, Haggan said. Hernandez was charged in the double homicide in May, and he pleaded not guilty. Investigators found evidence they believe links him to the 2012 slayings while investigating the death of Lloyd. CNN's Laura Dolan, Kristi Ramsay and Michelle Rozsa contributed to this report.", "token_length": 2147}
{"text": "(CNN) I see signs of a revolution everywhere. I see it in the op-ed pages of the newspapers, and on the state ballots in nearly half the country. I see it in politicians who once preferred to play it safe with this explosive issue but are now willing to stake their political futures on it. I see the revolution in the eyes of sterling scientists, previously reluctant to dip a toe into this heavily stigmatized world, who are diving in head first. I see it in the new surgeon general who cites data showing just how helpful it can be. I see a revolution in the attitudes of everyday Americans. For the first time a majority, 53%, favor its legalization, with 77% supporting it for medical purposes. Support for legalization has risen 11 points in the past few years alone. In 1969, the first time Pew asked the question about legalization, only 12% of the nation was in favor. I see a revolution that is burning white hot among young people, but also shows up among the parents and grandparents in my kids' school. A police officer I met in Michigan is part of the revolution, as are the editors of the medical journal, Neurosurgery. I see it in the faces of good parents, uprooting their lives to get medicine for their children -- and in the children themselves, such as Charlotte, who went from having 300 seizures a week to just one or two a month. We know it won't consistently have such dramatic results (or any impact at all) in others, but what medicine does? I see this medical marijuana revolution in surprising places. Girl's seizures spur medical marijuana legislation in Georgia . Among my colleagues, my patients and my friends. I have even seen the revolution in my own family. A few years ago, when I told my mother I was investigating the topic for a documentary, I was met with a long pause. \"Marijuana...?\" She whispered in a half questioning, half disapproving tone. She could barely even say the word and her response filled me with self-doubt. Even as a grown man, mom can still make my cheeks turn red and shatter my confidence with a single word. But just last week she suddenly stopped mid-conversation and said, \"I am proud of you on the whole marijuana thing.\" I waited for the other shoe to drop, but it didn't. Instead, she added, \"You probably helped a lot of people who were suffering.\" I don't think we had ever had a conversation like that one. At that moment, I saw a revolution that can bring you to tears. The word revolution, comes from the Latin revolutio, to \"turn around.\" I had my own turn around a couple of years ago, and at the time it was a lonely place to hold a supportive position on medical marijuana. Hardly any government officials would agree to sit down and be interviewed on the topic. Even patients I spoke to were reluctant to share their stories. It can be tricky, I learned, to be on the right side of science but on the wrong side of ideology. When we put the first \"Weed\" documentary on television in August 2013, I didn't know if anyone would watch our yearlong investigation. Even worse, I didn't even know if they would care. Is weed legal in your state? Just two years later, in \"Weed 3,\" we are eyewitnesses to a revolution in full swing. You will ride along with us for the dawn of the first federally approved clinical study on the use of marijuana for PTSD. You will meet patients such as Sean Kiernan, an accomplished investment banker, and Amelia Taylor, a stay-at-home mom. They are the remarkable and surprising faces of this revolution -- smart, successful and suffering -- unwilling to accept the fact that commonly prescribed medications often used to treat PTSD can be worse than the underlying disorder itself. Sean Kiernan nearly died, trying to get better. You will see what weed really does to your brain, in crystal clear images. This time around, you will hear from the heads of government agencies earnestly sharing their point of view, both Democratic and Republican senators, and even the President of the United States. This is what a revolution looks like. Your medical marijuana questions answered . When \"Weed 2: Cannabis Madness\" aired in March 2014, Boston researcher Rick Doblin believed the right people were watching. Just four days later, Doblin received a letter in the mail he had been waiting on for seven years that finally provided federal approval for his marijuana study. The federal farm where Doblin would have to obtain his marijuana is on the campus of Ole Miss in Oxford, Mississippi. In anticipation of a scientific revolution, the production of research-grade marijuana there has increased 30-fold in just the past year. Make no mistake, we have plenty of evidence that the approval and support of the federal government can fast track a revolution at a faster pace than we have yet seen. It was the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases that spearheaded the research into a cure for AIDS, as well as stopping the spread of West Nile Virus. They were also responsible for the awesome task of eradicating polio and smallpox. Other successful federally backed programs include the human genome project, the BRAIN initiative and the Precision Medicine Initiative. There are no shortage of examples where the federal government has been a guardian of our public health needs, and you could argue that medical marijuana would also qualify as a worthwhile investment. 10 diseases where medical marijuana could have impact . There is now promising research into the use of marijuana that could impact tens of thousands of children and adults, including treatment for cancer, epilepsy and Alzheimer's, to name a few. With regard to pain alone, marijuana could greatly reduce the demand for narcotics and simultaneously decrease the number of accidental painkiller overdoses, which are the greatest cause of preventable death in this country. As I sat across from Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) and Cory Booker (D-New Jersey), I knew something extraordinary was happening. They were reciting the story of Charlotte Figi and countless other children. They were quoting back the data we had shared from our earlier investigations. They were extolling the potential virtues of the plant, and all of that was before the interview even started. There was an impatience about them, and they seemed in a hurry to make a large dent in marijuana reform. They want marijuana to be rescheduled. They want it now. They want doctors to be able to prescribe it at VA hospitals all over the country. They want it now. They want research dollars freed up to study the plant. They want it now. They want their fellow lawmakers at the state and national level to acknowledge what most of the world, including the citizens of the United States, have known for a long time: Marijuana is a medicine, that should be studied and treated like any other medicine. And they want all of it now. I spent much of our interview challenging them. I needed to remind them that people, long before me or them, have been trying to do many of these same things for 40 years, and had been rejected every time. I reminded them that politicians have a hard time winning elections on the issue of marijuana but less difficulty losing them. I challenged them every step of the way. \"This time will be different,\" Booker confidently told me as he walked out of the room. Is marijuana as safe as -- or safer than -- alcohol? I know how easy it is do nothing because I did nothing for too long. Take a good look at the data, educate yourself and talk to the patients, who are often out of options and find their hope in the form of a simple plant. Journalists shouldn't take a position. It makes sense. Objectivity is king. But, at some point, open questions do get answered. At some point, contentious issues do get resolved. At some point, common sense prevails. So, here it is: We should legalize medical marijuana. We should do it nationally. And, we should do it now. 9 things to know about legal pot .", "token_length": 1891}
{"text": "Boston (CNN)Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's bombs tore through their bodies: singeing flesh, shattering bones, shredding muscles and severing limbs. But on Tuesday, jurors also began to hear about the holes his bombs left in the hearts of the survivors and the families of the dead. Now that he has been found guilty on every count, the jury must decide whether Boston Marathon bomber Tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done. This is the victim impact part of the case, and the testimony was heartbreaking. Four young people are gone, and grief fills the spaces they once occupied. A father with a shock of white hair cried for the daughter he called \"Princess.\" \"Krystle was the light of my life. She was extremely smart, hardworking, beautiful, every father's dream. I miss her a lot,\" said William A. Campbell Sr., dabbing at his eyes as he described his daughter, a 29-year-old restaurant manager who was killed in the first blast at the 2013 Boston Marathon. She was the one who could round up the family and put on big celebrations, he said. \"Nobody fills that boot now.\" Others are expected to come and cry for Lingzi Lu, \"a jolly soul,\" Assistant U.S. Attorney Nadine Pellegrini said, quoting the slain Chinese grad student's father. More tears will be shed for Martin Richard, who was 8 and looked just like his dad. And for Sean Collier, who was remembered at his memorial service by these words: \"Big heart, big smiles, big service. All love.\" \"Dzhokhar Tsarnaev murdered each one of them in a way that they had time to feel pain, they had time to be scared and frightened, but they had no time to say good-bye,\" Pellegrini told the jury. \"And that is the very essence of terror.\" Timeline of bombings, manhunt and aftermath . To understand the toll Tsarnaev's bombs took, jurors must know the stories of his victims, the prosecutor said. \"These young women, this young man and this little boy, all of them were loved and they loved in return,\" Pellegrini said. \"Before he murdered them in some of the cruelest ways imaginable, they were sons, they were daughters, they were grandchildren, they were brothers and they were sisters.\" Jurors saw photograph after photograph of smiling, happy people with arms around siblings at weddings and birthday parties and family gatherings. There was the photo of Campbell as a little girl in a red tap-dancing outfit. And then came the one that made her father smile through his tears. She was a little older and wearing a baseball uniform. \"She traded that in for a bat,\" Campbell said. \"She wasn't really a girly girl, but she loved to whitewater, camp, play baseball. She had a good arm on her. I was very proud of her.\" By contrast, jurors also were left with an indelible image of Tsarnaev, taken when he was in a holding cell in the very courthouse where the trial is being held. It is dated July 10, 2013 -- the day of his arraignment on charges he deliberately set off the deadly bombs at the Boston Marathon. He glares into the camera defiantly, his middle finger raised in a profane salute. \"This is Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, unconcerned, unrepentant and unchanged,\" Pellegrini said. \"Without remorse, he remains untouched by the grief and the loss that he caused.\" Tsarnaev saw the people he killed as \"the enemy,\" she said. As a result, two women and a man never reached the age of 30, and a little boy never made it to the third grade. \"He knew they were innocents. He even called them that,\" Pellegrini added, referring to the message Tsarnaev scrawled onto the sides of a boat where he hid from police after the bombings. \"But it didn't stop him from murdering them.\" The people who were maimed by Tsarnaev's bombs are also testifying during the sentencing phase of the trial as prosecutors try to show the impact on victims of the attacks. The stories they told on the witness stand were even more gripping and horrific than the stories told during the guilt phase of Tsarnaev's trial. When the first of the two bombs went off, Gillian Reny, a senior in high school, was standing near the woman she came to know was  Krystle Campbell. \"There was a complete, utter chilling silence and then chaos. Chaos like I'd never seen and never hope to see again,\" she said. The force of the blast knocked her to the ground. When she looked around, she saw blood and muscle everywhere. Her shin bone had snapped and was protruding. \"Muscle was everywhere. It was the most horrifying image I could imagine. Just seeing that on my own body,\" she said, and began to cry. \"I remember looking around and it just seemed like there were bodies everywhere, blood everywhere.\" Were you bleeding? she was asked. \"Yes, enormously. Looking down at the blood I was just shocked that much blood could come out of someone,\" she said. \"I was terrified that I was going to die. I did not know that I could be that injured and survive.\" She said she began to scream. Her bone-chilling cries could be heard on a video played in court -- the most graphic of many graphic images the jury has been shown. Doctors were able to save Reny's leg, but others weren't so lucky. Celeste Corcoran lost both legs, one below the knee and the other above the knee. An amputation above the knee is the most difficult injury to recover from, jurors have learned at this trial. Corcoran was at the finish line, waiting for her sister to cross. \"And then our whole world just exploded,\" she said. \"I unfortunately remember every single detail.\" She remembers being knocked to the ground, hearing nothing and then screams, and seeing blood everywhere. \"It's kind of hard to explain but I want to get it right for all of you to understand,\" she told the jury. She said it was \"a surreal, out-of-body experience.\"  She remembers thinking, \"What was that?\" and wishing she could turn back time by five minutes. Her husband bent over her and told her it was a terrorist attack. By then, she began to feel pain worse than anything she had imagined. She wondered if she would die. \"It hurt too much. I just didn't care,\" she said. \"I remember thinking I was going to die, that no one could go through that much pain.  I knew it was very bad and I was thinking, 'Is this it? Am I going to die?' I remember thinking I wanted to die. The pain was too much. I wanted to die.\" And then, she said, \"the mom in me\" took over. She remembers telling herself: \" 'Hell no, I don't want to die. I have too much living to do. Don't let this be the end. This can't be the end.'\" She remembers feeling relief once she arrived at the hospital, even as she signed the form authorizing doctors to take both her legs. \"Can I get on with my life? Absolutely,\" she said. But she can never forget she's a double amputee. \"There's always a level of discomfort. Right now I'm not comfortable,\" she said from the witness stand. \"The bottoms of my limbs, there's this constant numb burning sensation. The only way I can describe it is it's like you have the worst athlete's foot in my life.\" Sometimes, she feels a stabbing sensation where her toes and calves used to be. \"You don't realize until you're a double amputee how many dips and hills and inclines there are,\" she said. \"Inclines are very hard.\" Daily life is literally an uphill battle. Opinion: What Tsarnaev deserves . CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.", "token_length": 1897}
{"text": "Washington (CNN)Chief Justice John Roberts is back in the spotlight. Roberts -- who shocked conservatives nearly three years ago by providing a pivotal vote to uphold Obamacare -- once again faces a judicial crossroads in a historic case. The U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments Tuesday in a case that could decide whether gay and lesbian couples nationwide have the constitutional right to marry. The question at the core of Obergefell v. Hodges is one of the most consequential debates of the early 21st century, and one that is already helping to shape the 2016 presidential race. Appeals courts nationwide have moved decisively toward supporting same-sex marriage, but a split at the appellate level helped propel the issue to the nation's highest court, led by Roberts. Appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush, Roberts has a solid conservative record and would seem an unlikely vote to support a constitutional right to same-sex marriage. He dissented in United States v. Windsor, a landmark case in which a narrowly divided court struck down a key provision of the Defense of Marriage Act, which denied federal benefits to lawfully married same-sex couples. And he's expressed sympathy with legal arguments that would allow same-sex marriage bans. Yet both sides see the case as a legacy-making moment for the 60-year-old chief justice, and advocates for same-sex couples hold out hope that he will emerge as their ally. They will be scrutinizing his words and actions Tuesday for clues about how he'll vote -- and whether he will upset some conservatives once again. \"If the Windsor majority votes in favor of marriage equality, the ruling will be one of the most momentous decisions of the Roberts court,\" said Judith E. Schaeffer of the Constitutional Accountability Center, which is advocating for same-sex marriage. \"Will John Roberts want to be remembered as having dissented from such a historic decision?\" For some conservatives, a vote in favor of same-sex marriage in the case would be a huge disappointment. It would be akin to the type of betrayal they felt when Justice David Souter, who was nominated to the bench by George H.W. Bush and who retired in 2009, consistently voted with the liberals or when Justice Anthony Kennedy, a Ronald Reagan appointee, disappointed them on earlier gay rights cases as well as abortion and the death penalty. Or when Roberts infuriated conservative allies by providing the crucial fifth vote to uphold Obamacare on the grounds that the law is a constitutional use of the government's taxing authority. The hope in conservative circles is that Roberts will see his legacy as ensuring that the issue of same-sex marriage gets decided by the people, not the courts. \"The chief surely knows that his job is to be on the right side of the Constitution,\" said Edward Whelan, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center. \"Blatherings about the 'wrong side of history' are an appeal to intellectual cowardice.\" Those hoping that he will vote to uphold the state bans see a strong signal in the Windsor case. In his majority opinion, Kennedy said the \"principal purpose\" of the Defense of Marriage Act was to \"impose inequality.\" Roberts disagreed. He wrote separately to say he thought Congress acted constitutionally when it passed the law in 1996 in an attempt to provide \"uniformity and stability\" at a time when every state defined marriage as between a man and a woman. Roberts picked up on Kennedy's language that emphasized the states' power to define the marital relationship and said that power will someday \"come into play on the other side of the board in future cases about the constitutionality of state marriage definitions.\" David Cruz of the University of Southern California Gould School of Law said that Roberts could use that reasoning to vote in favor of state bans in the Obergefell case. \"Roberts is suggesting that concerns about the powers of states will support state laws excluding same-sex couples from marriage,\" Cruz said. Indeed, the lower court that upheld the marriage bans in Michigan, Tennessee, Ohio and Kentucky in the Obergefell case relied heavily on the argument that states have a right to define marriage. Another clue to Roberts' thinking in the Windsor dissent is that he took particular issue with any notion that the Defense of Marriage Act was passed out of a desire to harm -- noting it had the support of majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate as well as President Bill Clinton, who signed it into law. \"I would not tar the political branches with the brush of bigotry,\" Roberts wrote. The comments suggest he would reject an argument in the Obergefell case that rested on the idea that same-sex marriage bans reflected animus against gay people. But backers of same-sex marriage are reading some tea leaves of their own. Schaeffer points out that Roberts didn't join the parts of the dissents penned by Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito, which clearly stated a belief that state bans on same-sex marriage don't violate the Constitution. \"Roberts didn't join them in expressing those views,\" Schaeffer said. At the time, Roberts simply wrote that the court \"does not have before it, and the logic of its opinion does not decide\" whether states can ban same-sex marriage. Schaeffer said the chief justice could have simply chosen to remain silent on an issue that wasn't before the court. \"But I think one reasonable explanation is that Roberts was preserving a clean slate for himself on the ultimate issue of marriage equality,\" she said. The Defense of Marriage Act decision overshadowed another 2013 case -- Hollingsworth v. Perry -- that could have determined whether states could ban same-sex marriage. The case concerned a challenge to California's Proposition 8, a state constitutional amendment that barred same-sex couples from marriage. But Roberts, writing for the majority, dismissed the case, holding that the challengers did not have the legal standing to bring it to the court. The ruling left in place a lower court decision that had invalidated Proposition 8 and thus paved the way for same-sex marriage in California. Roberts' lesbian cousin, who lives in California, sat in the courtroom during arguments in the Prop 8 case. Few people predicted that the issue would return so quickly to the Supreme Court, but waves of lower court judges -- sometimes citing Windsor -- struck down the state bans. On the first day of the term last fall, the court was presented with seven different petitions on the issue. Conventional wisdom was that the justices would garner the four necessary votes and grant one of the cases. But conventional wisdom was completely wrong. Without comment, the court declined to take up any of the cases, clearing the way for thousands of additional same-sex marriages. The court's vote count in such decisions is kept a secret and may never be known. But some speculate on one possible scenario: Roberts chose not to provide the fourth vote to the conservatives who dissented in Windsor. Then again, even if the speculation were true, it doesn't reveal much about Roberts' thinking. There's a big difference between voting not to take up a case, which expresses no opinions on the merits, and issuing an opinion on the merits. And even when Roberts' actions -- such as effectively allowing same-sex marriage to proceed in California -- seem to suggest a willingness to consider such unions nationwide, his comments along the way make it much harder to gain insight into his ultimate thinking. \"When the institution of marriage developed historically, people didn't get around and say, 'Let's have this institution, but let's keep out homosexuals,' \" Roberts said during the Proposition 8 oral arguments. \"The institution developed to serve purposes that, by their nature, didn't include homosexual couples.\"", "token_length": 1794}
